---
title: ROS Rviz
layout: post
---

`--in-mc-wrapper` This enable a change master option, selecting crashes rviz however.


Render a textured quad in rviz, and have the texture be provided via Image topic:
https://github.com/team-vigir/vigir_ocs_common/blob/master/vigir_ocs_rviz_plugins/vigir_ocs_rviz_plugin_mesh_display_custom/src/mesh_display_custom.cpp

http://answers.ros.org/question/218502/rviz-display-image-in-3d-scene/


How about publishing an image from rviz?
http://answers.ros.org/question/142351/publishing-virtual-camera-images-from-rviz/

https://github.com/uml-robotics/rviz_camera_stream might do it, try it out.

What is visualization_msgs/ImageMarker?

## Extract mesh_display from Vigir source code.

Fork the code, then break the connection (do not want to ever merge it back).
Lots of other interesting sounding plugins in there, should build them all and try them out later.

It needs an image topic:

```
rosrun vimjay image.py `rospack find vimjay`/data/gradient_radial2.png
```

And a mesh topic?
Expects a shape_msgs/Mesh, is there a node to load a dae or obj and publish it as a Mesh?

Some source code here:
http://answers.ros.org/question/147886/creating-a-collisionobject-from-a-mesh-in-hydro/

Make a python script to publish a cube mesh.

Maybe a map display could be modified to show an image rather than an OccupancyGrid.

Also there is no Mesh display in rviz::

  http://answers.ros.org/question/222362/rviz-trying-to-display-shape_msgs-mesh/

The custom mesh display from Vigir does this, could skip the texture part, make it optional, override it with color property- this looks to just work, if no image then the color and alpha decide the mesh appearance.

Looks like the image needs a frame id, can I disable that?

```
[ WARN] [/rviz_1454936041361676601] [/opt/ros/jade/include/tf/message_filter.h]:[354] [MessageFilter [target=map ]: Discarding message from [unknown_publisher] due to empty frame_id.  This message will only print once.]
```

Need to make the orientation euler angles rather than quaternion.
`tf.transformations.quaternion_from_euler(0, -1.57, 0)`
`array([ 0.        , -0.70682518,  0.        ,  0.70738827])`

Provide frame to put the mesh in?

Does the frame get used to project the image, in conjunction with the position and orientation of the projector, or are those in the fixed frame or map?

The adapted OccupancyGrid display route might be simpler.
